[Docs][Kuberay] Documentation for Using Kuberay with TPUs (#45924)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/cluster/kubernetes/user-guides/tpu.md

(kuberay-tpu)=

> # Using TPUs with KubeRay

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Use TPUs with KubeRay
```

This document provides tips on TPU usage with KubeRay.

TPUs are available on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE). To use TPUs with Kubernetes, configure

> both your Kubernetes setup and add additional values to your RayCluster CR configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both the Kubernetes setup and add additional values to the RayCluster CR configuration.
```

Configure TPUs on GKE by referencing the {ref}`kuberay-gke-tpu-cluster-setup`.

## About TPUs

> TPUs are custom-designed AI accelerators, which are optimized for training and inference of large AI models. A TPU host is a VM that runs on a physical computer connected to TPU hardware. TPU workloads can run on one or multiple hosts. A TPU Pod slice is a collection of chips all physically colocated and connected by high-speed inter chip interconnects (ICI). Single-host TPU Pod slices contain independent TPU VM hosts and communicate over the Data Center Network (DCN) rather than ICI interconnects. Multi-host TPU Pod slices contain two more interconnected TPU VM hosts. In GKE, multi-host TPU Pod slices run on their own node pools and are scaled atomically by node pools, rather than individual nodes. Both single-host and multi-host TPU Pod slices can be scaled seamlessly to multiple slices, enabling greater parallelism to support larger workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TPUs are custom-designed AI accelerators, which are optimized for training and inference of large AI models. A TPU host is a VM that runs on a physical computer connected to TPU hardware. TPU workloads can run on one or multiple hosts. A TPU Pod slice is a collection of chips all physically colocated and connected by high-speed inter chip interconnects (ICI). Single-host TPU Pod slices contain independent TPU VM hosts and communicate over the Data Center Network (DCN) rather than ICI interconnects. Multi-host TPU Pod slices contain two more interconnected TPU VM hosts. In GKE, multi-host TPU Pod slices run on their own node pools and Ray scales them atomically by node pools, rather than individual nodes. Ray scales both single-host and multi-host TPU Pod slices seamlessly to multiple slices, enabling greater parallelism to support larger workloads.
```

Author: They're scaled on GKE by node pools, not by Ray. I'll change the wording to be the same but replace Ray with "GKE".

Author: [424702e](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/45924/commits/424702e2dbabd9ec815527ec218cac4e9bc1296c)

```
   groupName: tpu-group
   replicas: 1
   minReplicas: 0
   maxReplicas: 1
   numOfHosts: 2
   ...
   template:
       spec:
        ...
        containers:
         - name: ray-worker
           image: rayproject/ray:2.9.0-py310
           ...
           resources:
             google.com/tpu: "4" # Required to use TPUs.
             ...
           limits:
             google.com/tpu: "4" # The resources and limits value is expected to be equal.
             ...
        nodeSelector:
            cloud.google.com/gke-tpu-accelerator: tpu-v4-podslice
            cloud.google.com/gke-tpu-topology: 2x2x2
            ...
```

## TPU workload scheduling

After Ray deploys a Ray Pod with TPU resources, the Ray Pod can execute tasks and actors annotated with TPU requests.
Ray supports TPUs as a [custom resource](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/scheduling/resources.html#custom-resources).
Tasks or actors request TPUs using the decorator `@ray.remote(resources={"TPU": NUM_TPUS})`.

## Multi-Host TPU autoscaling

> Multi-host TPU autoscaling is supported in Kuberay versions 1.1.0 or later and Ray versions 2.32.0 or later. Ray multi-host TPU worker groups are worker groups, which specify "google.com/tpu" Kubernetes container limits or requests and have `NumOfHosts` greater than 1. Ray treats each replica of a Ray multi-host TPU worker group as a TPU Pod slice and scales them atomically. When scaling up, multi-host worker groups create `NumOfHosts` Ray workers per replica. Likewise, Ray scales down multi-host worker group replicas by `NumOfHosts` workers. When a Ray schedules to delete a single Ray worker in a multi-host TPU worker group, Ray terminates the entire replica to which the worker belongs. When scheduling TPU workloads on multi-host worker groups, it's important to ensure Ray tasks or actors run on every TPU VM host in a worker group replica to avoid Ray from scaling down idle TPU workers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multi-host TPU autoscaling is supported in Kuberay versions 1.1.0 or later and Ray versions 2.32.0 or later. Ray multi-host TPU worker groups are worker groups, which specify "google.com/tpu" Kubernetes container limits or requests and have `NumOfHosts` greater than 1. Ray treats each replica of a Ray multi-host TPU worker group as a TPU Pod slice and scales them atomically. When scaling up, multi-host worker groups create `NumOfHosts` Ray workers per replica. Likewise, Ray scales down multi-host worker group replicas by `NumOfHosts` workers. When Ray schedules a deletion of a single Ray worker in a multi-host TPU worker group, it terminates the entire replica to which the worker belongs. When scheduling TPU workloads on multi-host worker groups, ensure that Ray tasks or actors run on every TPU VM host in a worker group replica to avoid Ray from scaling down idle TPU workers.
```

(kuberay-tpu)=

> # Using TPUs with KubeRay

Reviewer 2: Can we add two sections to this document: (1) Explain PodSlice, single-host, multi-host, etc., and (2) Ray/KubeRay versions for multi-host TPU support and autoscaling?

Author: c9f87b8 adds a section on autoscaling and [e4b38fc](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/45924/commits/e4b38fc0a89cfc9425a707bed0f32f0a53da9171) adds a section called "About TPUs" which outlines terminology such as Pod slice and single/multi host.

This document provides tips on TPU usage with KubeRay.

TPUs are available on Google Kubernetes Engine (GKE). To use TPUs with Kubernetes, configure

> both your Kubernetes setup and add additional values to your RayCluster configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
both your Kubernetes setup and add additional values to your RayCluster CRD configuration.
```

Reviewer 2: same

Author: [1e1fe21](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/45924/commits/1e1fe2146656ae3f04c51e13bb0a203eb5ac4946)

> Instructions for configuring TPUs on GKE can be found here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure TPUs on GKE by referencing the {ref}`kuberay-gke-tpu-cluster-setup`.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Instructions for configuring a RayCluster with TPUs on GKE can be found here:

Reviewer 2: The doc doesn't talk about "RayCluster'.

```suggestion
Instructions for configuring TPUs on GKE can be found here:
```

> - {ref}`kuberay-gke-tpu-cluster-setup`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Quickstart: Serve a Stable Diffusion model on GKE with TPUs

> After setting up a GKE cluster with TPUs and the Ray TPU initialization webhook, you're ready to begin running

Reviewer 2: <img width="1316" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/9b68c508-5430-4519-84ac-d722892b757d">

Author: I added in the ref to the Stable Diffusion example this way because that's how I saw other docs in the repo do it, I'm not sure how this will appear once merged (since the Stable Diffusion TPU example that's referenced will be merged in the same PR).

> TPUs are custom-designed AI accelerators which are optimized for training and inference of large AI models. A TPU host is a VM that runs on a physical computer connected to TPU hardware. TPU workloads can run on one or multiple hosts. A TPU Pod slice is a collection of chips all physically colocated and connected by high-speed inter chip interconnects (ICI). Single-host TPU Pod slices contain independent TPU VM hosts and communicate over the Data Center Network (DCN) rather than ICI interconnects. Multi-host TPU Pod slices contain two more interconnected TPU VM hosts. In GKE, multi-host TPU Pod slices run on their own node pools and are scaled atomically by node pools, rather than individual nodes. Both single-host and multi-host TPU Pod slices can be scaled seamlessly to multiple slices, enabling greater parallelism to support larger workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TPUs are custom-designed AI accelerators, which are optimized for training and inference of large AI models. A TPU host is a VM that runs on a physical computer connected to TPU hardware. TPU workloads can run on one or multiple hosts. A TPU Pod slice is a collection of chips all physically colocated and connected by high-speed inter chip interconnects (ICI). Single-host TPU Pod slices contain independent TPU VM hosts and communicate over the Data Center Network (DCN) rather than ICI interconnects. Multi-host TPU Pod slices contain two more interconnected TPU VM hosts. In GKE, multi-host TPU Pod slices run on their own node pools and are scaled atomically by node pools, rather than individual nodes. Both single-host and multi-host TPU Pod slices can be scaled seamlessly to multiple slices, enabling greater parallelism to support larger workloads.
```

workloads on Ray with TPUs. The :ref:`StableDiffusion example <kuberay-tpu-stable-diffusion-example>` shows how to
serve a model with Ray on single-host TPUs.

## Configuring Ray Pods for TPU usage

Using any TPU accelerator requires specifying `google.com/tpu` resource `limits` and `requests` in the container fields of your `RayCluster`'s
`workerGroupSpecs`. This resource specifies the number of TPU chips for GKE to allocate each Pod. KubeRay v1.1.0 adds a `numOfHosts`
field to the RayCluster custom resource, specifying the number of TPU hosts to create per worker group replica. For multi-host worker groups,
replicas are treated as PodSlices rather than individual workers, with `numOfHosts` worker nodes being created per replica.
Additionally, GKE uses `gke-tpu` node selectors to schedule TPU pods on the node matching the desired TPU accelerator and topology.

> Below is a config snippet for a RayCluster worker group with 2 Ray TPU workers, each scheduled on their own GKE v4 TPU node.

Reviewer 2: There are multiple meanings of "worker" in the context of Ray, so I use `worker Pod` instead.

```suggestion
Below is a config snippet for a RayCluster worker group with 2 Ray TPU worker pods, each scheduled on its own GKE v4 TPU node belonging to the same TPU PodSlice.
```

> After setting up a GKE cluster with TPUs and the Ray TPU initialization webhook, you're ready to begin running workloads on Ray with TPUs. The :ref:`StableDiffusion example <kuberay-tpu-stable-diffusion-example>` shows how to serve a model with Ray on single-host TPUs.

Reviewer 2: ![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/74ebdf63-8738-4f1f-ae8b-788fa3a70d10)

This doesn't link correctly.

Author: Changed the link to a valid .md reference in [2a6a93f](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/45924/commits/2a6a93fef8436a802b85f334d779f1b54c4d2d6a).

> After setting up a GKE cluster with TPUs and the Ray TPU initialization webhook, you're ready to begin running workloads on Ray with TPUs. {ref}`Serve a Stable Diffusion model on GKE with TPUs <kuberay-tpu-stable-diffusion-example>` shows how to serve a model with KubeRay on single-host TPUs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After setting up a GKE cluster with TPUs and the Ray TPU initialization webhook, run a workload on Ray with TPUs. {ref}`Serve a Stable Diffusion model on GKE with TPUs <kuberay-tpu-stable-diffusion-example>` shows how to serve a model with KubeRay on single-host TPUs.
```

```

>    groupName: tpu-group

Reviewer 2: Do we need to set `rayStartParams`?

Author: I don't think so, the resource gets detected from the k8s container limits so setting `google.com/tpu: "4"` should be sufficient

Reviewer 2: how does Ray schedule the Ray tasks/actors to a TPU node if we don't specify `rayStartParams`?

Author: I'm thinking of the code [here](https://github.com/ryanaoleary/ray/blob/9a2f2c262a46f167eb742533966c66cc75b95743/python/ray/autoscaler/_private/kuberay/autoscaling_config.py#L269) that adds the "TPU" resource if it's detected in the container limits but not set in `rayStartParams`. I'm not sure if that's just used for autoscaling, but I tested with this example [RayService ](https://github.com/ray-project/kuberay/blob/master/ray-operator/config/samples/ray-cluster.tpu-v4-singlehost.yaml) that doesn't set `rayStartParams`, and the [Ray actor](https://github.com/ray-project/serve_config_examples/blob/d16752eef753c3eb8efa8bb37d0ba0891bc875cd/stable_diffusion/stable_diffusion_tpu.py#L34) that requests `"resources": {"TPU": 4}` was scheduled correctly.

   replicas: 1
   minReplicas: 0
   maxReplicas: 1
   numOfHosts: 2
   ...
   template:
       spec:
        ...
        containers:
         - name: ray-worker
           image: rayproject/ray:2.9.0-py310
           ...
           resources:

>              cpu: "1"

Reviewer 2: Can we remove cpu, ephemeral-storage, and memory from this snippet and use `...` instead so that users can focus on the TPU configurations?

Author: Done in [e4b38fc](https://github.com/ray-project/ray/pull/45924/commits/e4b38fc0a89cfc9425a707bed0f32f0a53da9171)

> replicas are treated as Pod slices rather than individual workers, with `numOfHosts` worker nodes being created per replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray treats replicas as Pod slices rather than individual workers, and creates `numOfHosts` worker nodes per replica.
```

> Below is a config snippet for a RayCluster worker group with 2 Ray TPU worker Pods, each scheduled on its own GKE v4 TPU node belonging to the same TPU Pod slice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is a config snippet for a RayCluster worker group with 2 Ray TPU worker Pods. Ray schedules each worker group on its own GKE v4 TPU node belonging to the same TPU Pod slice.
```

Author: I'll add this change with the edit `Ray schedules each worker group` -> `Ray schedules each worker`

             ephemeral-storage: 10Gi
             google.com/tpu: "4" # Required to use TPUs.
             memory: 40G
           limits:
             cpu: "1"
             ephemeral-storage: 10Gi
             google.com/tpu: "4" # The resources and limits value is expected to be equal.
             memory: 40G
        nodeSelector:
            cloud.google.com/gke-tpu-accelerator: tpu-v4-podslice
            cloud.google.com/gke-tpu-topology: 2x2x2
            ...
```

## TPU workload scheduling

After a Ray pod with with TPU pod resources is deployed, it will be able to execute tasks and actors annotated with TPU requests.
TPUs are supported on Ray as a [custom resource](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/scheduling/resources.html#custom-resources),
and are requested by tasks or actors using the decorator `@ray.remote(resources={"TPU": NUM_TPUS})`.

Further reference and discussion
--------------------------------
* See [TPUs in GKE](https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/tpus) for more details on using TPUs.
* [TPU availability](https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/regions-zones)

> * [nodeSelectors](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/assign-pod-node/#nodeselector)

Reviewer 2: I think it is not necessary to put this link.

Author: Removed in e4b38fc, I added a link to https://cloud.google.com/tpu/docs/system-architecture-tpu-vm which contains some helpful terminology.

> After a Ray pod with with TPU pod resources is deployed, it will be able to execute tasks and actors annotated with TPU requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a Ray deploys a Ray pod with TPU pod resources, The Ray pod can execute tasks and actors annotated with TPU requests.
```

> TPUs are supported on Ray as a [custom resource](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/scheduling/resources.html#custom-resources),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ray supports TPUs as a [custom resource](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-core/scheduling/resources.html#custom-resources).
```

> and are requested by tasks or actors using the decorator `@ray.remote(resources={"TPU": NUM_TPUS})`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tasks or actors request the TPUs using the decorator `@ray.remote(resources={"TPU": NUM_TPUS})`.
```

> ## Multi-Host TPU Autoscaling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Multi-Host TPU autoscaling
```

> Multi-host TPU autoscaling is supported in Kuberay versions 1.1.0 or later and Ray versions 2.32.0 or later. Ray multi-host TPU worker groups are worker groups which specify "google.com/tpu" Kubernetes container limits/requests and have `NumOfHosts` greater than 1. Each replica of a Ray multi-host TPU worker group is treated as a TPU Pod slice and scaled atomically. When scaling up, multi-host worker groups create `NumOfHosts` Ray workers per replica. Likewise, multi-host worker group replicas are scaled down by `NumOfHosts` workers. When a single Ray worker in a multi-host TPU worker group is scheduled to be deleted, the entire replica to which it belongs is terminated. When scheduling TPU workloads on multi-host worker groups, it's important to ensure Ray tasks or actors run on every TPU VM host in a worker group replica to avoid idle TPU workers being scaled down.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multi-host TPU autoscaling is supported in Kuberay versions 1.1.0 or later and Ray versions 2.32.0 or later. Ray multi-host TPU worker groups are worker groups, which specify "google.com/tpu" Kubernetes container limits or requests and have `NumOfHosts` greater than 1. Ray treats each replica of a Ray multi-host TPU worker group as a TPU Pod slice and scales them atomically. When scaling up, multi-host worker groups create `NumOfHosts` Ray workers per replica. Likewise, Ray scales down multi-host worker group replicas by `NumOfHosts` workers. When a Ray schedules to delete a single Ray worker in a multi-host TPU worker group, Ray terminates the entire replica to which the worker belongs. When scheduling TPU workloads on multi-host worker groups, it's important to ensure Ray tasks or actors run on every TPU VM host in a worker group replica to avoid Ray from scaling down idle TPU workers.
```
